Okay welcome back.
Let's dive right in with this challenge.
So first things first I hate the layout so let's do something about that at the moment our vertical
box is just taking up all the space so I select my vertical box and go in to the details slot widget
switcher slot.
Then I can position this with alignment towards the centre.
Okay so that's already looking far better with centre alignment.
The other thing I notice is it's quite hard to read our host button at the moment because of the light
patch in the background.
So what I'm going to do there right click my vertical box go to wrap with overlay and I'm going to add
in an image background to this small section of the panel so lets go to the image component stick that
in the overlay then take an image component and its overlay slots.
We are going to feel the horizontal and vertical axes go to brush.
And not the brush but rather the colour and opacity and change the colour to black and the opacity to
something fairly dark like this.
Then what.
Okay so this needs to be at the back first of all so Im going to reorder the children of the overlay.
So the image is behind the vertical box.
MIKE So thats already much better.
And then youll notice that there isnt much spacing around these elements.
So to create the spacing what I'm going to do.
Is go in to my vertical box and to its padding where I am going to give a padding of 30.
Now gets given a little bit of space border around that.
Go to my widget switcher and set it's indexed to 1.
Then we can go ahead and preview this in the game.
Kate this is starting to look better.
Except I'm still a little bit unhappy about a few things like the space between the button and my text
field and also the fact that the text feels really ugly.
So let's go in and add some spacing we know how to add spacing by now with a size box.
So let's go and find a size box and drag it in to a vertical box just between the editable text and
the button.
Got a size box now and what I'm going to do is I'm going to set a height override and pull up that height
override until it's something that I'm happy with.
Go got some space now between the two.
Other thing that I noticed is when I hit play and I start typing in the box is that it shrinks it instantly
shrinks to fit the text and I don't like that I would like that it's basically got a minimum width to
do that.
We can select that board box.
Scroll on down and we can find in here somewhere a minimum desired width which I can just pull out and
make something sensible out of this.
So there seems about 800 seems to be about what I want.
Go ahead and hit play and try and type into this.
Then it doesn't shrink and that seems normal I can type in an IP address very easily.
If I go over it does still expand which is nice and that's I think probably the behaviour I want So
this is really starting to take shape.
Obviously the button has the wrong text so let's go and change the text from host to join.
Like so.
And then we want to do some styling on that text now.
Actually what you'll find is the style of the text is almost identical to styling the button except
that the image you can choose to be different.
So I'm actually going to be using the same image as the button as I found that out works quite nicely
so let's go ahead and find the button texture.
And this time I am going to stick with using the draw as box option because I've decided that I don't
mind the fact that the striping gets stretched out.
In this case actually isn't that noticeable and kind of looks okay in intended.
However what I'm going to have to do is change this but all three styles for all three with the background
image.
Let's have a look at what those names are background image.
Normal hovered and focussed.
I'm going to make sure all those styles are changed so hovered.
I am going to choose my button texture to be the highlighted one and for our background image focussed.
I am going to change the image to be be highlighted once so let's go ahead and play and see what that
looks like.
I hover over it it does very much same thing as the button but if I click on it then I can type in it
and it hovers and looks.
Looks about right okay.
I think I may have selected the wrong thing.
Yes but and highlighted.
That's right I wanted button clicked because I want it just to illuminate.
When I clicked on it they go so I can see what's going on against that background that looks fine.
Now I want to change the font because the font is too large for the fact that this border is now bigger.
So I'm going to decrease the size of the font ever so slightly.
What.
Try to.
But I notice that base that changes the size of the button which I don't want to do too much.
So let's leave the font size as it is and instead go ahead and change first of all the colour because
the colours really hard to read.
Let's copy the colour from the join text song and go to the join text.
Go to appearance colour opacity right click on colour opacity and hit copy go over to the editable text
box find its font and not actually its font.
I believe it's somewhere the foreground colour is what we want.
Let's paste half a kind of that we copied on to the foreground colour sure enough that changes the colour
of the font.
Now you can see it's slightly faded out when it's just the hint text.
But if I click on it and start typing you'll see it's exactly the same colour as my join button.
Now I just need to go ahead and add some padding to this text to do that.
We go to our.
Padding option under style and I'm going to add in.
Basically I think the left needs about 30 units the right needs about 30 units as well and the top and
bottom probably need something to read as.
Try 20 and 20.
See what that looks like.
Yeah that gives us plenty of space to work with.
Let's go ahead and hit play.
And now I can type into this box.
And it all seems to work very nicely.
So we got a nice entry field that says IP address where we can type Our IP address and then we can hit
join after we have typed our IP address.
So we've got a great working menu Let's see if we've done everything from the challenge we've said to
add a style of text box to improve the layout to ensure everything is legible Yes we've done all of
that.
We also wanted to add a headings so let's add a heading to know where we are to do that.
I'm going to copy the heading from our size box.
Main Menu.
Copy the main menu text.
And with that main many text Let's go over to our other overlay and this is very confusing they're very
confusingly named.
So let me rename them our size box is the main menu.
So I am going to f 2 and here call this main menu instead and the other one is not just overlay but
rather our join menu.
So now I can easily you know what is in our widgets which are.
So we got a join menu our main menu and we're going to go down to let's see.
We're going to add some text undera vertical box say into slender vertical box hit paste ago May menus
be notes at the bottom obviously not what I intended.
Let's drag it up to the top of that menu.
And change the text.
To say.
Join a game.
Like so.
And now it seems pretty obvious what this menu does.
We type in an IP address that's going to be joining a game we had join and the game will be joined.
So that seems pretty clear to me.
I just want copy that size box because at the moment it is not entirely.
Not entirely working as I intended.
Let's remove.
I copied it in the wrong place copied it underneath the other sized books so let's copy and paste it
under the E.
Menu text so that we've got bit of even spacing between the join game IP address join.
So that's looking great.
One thing that I want to rectify now is that in our main menu we dont have this background so we had
to add lots of spacing for our host and join bus.
I dont like that.
So what I'm going to do is add an overlay to that menu as well.
So lets right click the main menu.
If I can.
I've moved it around by accident that's right click rap with overlay.
And then we are going to copy the image that we used as a background for the join menu click on the
overlay and paste it there and go how to reorder it so it's behind the main menu that's already looking
far far better.
Now the next thing is to change how it scales.
Currently we've got it scaling so that there is a size box inside our main menu.
We've got a vertical box then a size box.
It's all very confusing really if you think about it.
I believe we've got a size box anyway.
It's this size box.
Nope.
Got a vertical box and.
Oh yes at the roots.
We've got our size box so let's remove this size box entirely.
I'm going to right click the size box which is now being called Main Menu confusingly enough and I'm
going to replace it with child.
Ago.
And now that's obviously scrunched everything up very small so Im going to add some sizes to that padding
sized boxes by checking the height override and increasing the height of that size box.
And then similarly the size boxes that go between the buttons in the horizontal box.
I'm going to increase the width of the middle one.
So we got bit more space between our.
And we don't need these other sized boxes now that are on the left and right of the buttons.
This is really simplified our design a bit.
And if we go and have a look at that now we've got the buttons laid out nicely.
We have to add this padding that we had on our vertical box for the join menu to do exactly the same
thing to our overlay menu.
I'm going to add 30 units of padding around our menu go to our widgets which and preview this by changing
the active widget to zero.
Go ahead and hit play.
And sure enough I think we've got a better lay out there already with our main menu very legible because
of the background image but now it is being laid out in the middle rather than having to be artificially
spread out because of our background.
So now the names have changed because we've seen the fragile element that the top if we change the top
element name it's.
Everything else changes so let's wrap both of these in.
In some size boxes that don't do anything but just there for naming.
So I'm going to wrap first the top overlay which is actually our main menu in a size box and I'm going
to change the size box.
Name two main menu.
This way we've just got it they're not performing any function just for naming for grouping and now
and join menu which is actually an overlay.
Let's rename that back to overlay.
Like so and then right click the overlay go to wrap with find the size box.
And then rename the size box to join menu.
Okay.
So what we've done there is we just used some artificial size boxes to wrap our different menus so that
it's much easier to see what we're organizing.
And then I'm going to rename the widgets which are two menu switcher.
Just for a bit of organization in our hierarchy.
Okay.
Now I'm pretty happy with the resultant menu We've got obviously it's not functional from clicking the
join buttons perspective but that is what we are going to fix next so don't worry about that.
We're going to fix it all up and I'll see you in the next lecture.